---
layout: post
title: "6th Weekly Meeting with Advising Professors"
date: 2023-11-6 11:00:00 -0400
categories: meeting update
tags: meeting update
---

# Recap of recent events
In our recent team meeting, we presented a comprehensive update on the activities from the past week. Notably, we had the privilege of meeting with Professor Jatin Nathwani, a distinguished expert in the field from the Department of Civil Engineering. During this meeting, Professor Nathwani agreed to facilitate key introductions within Hydro One, a pivotal development in our project!

Moreover, we introduced our project's dedicated blog site to our advising professors, who were greatly impressed by its layout and content.

We also outlined our strategic plans and timeline for the procurement of essential components required to construct the CaelVision prototype. We are committed to placing orders within this week or the immediate next.

# Ensuring safety in our endeavors
Safety is of paramount importance within our group, and we are committed to maintaining the highest standards. In consultation with our esteemed professors, we are diligently preparing a comprehensive safety checklist for testing the CaelVision prototype. This checklist will be continuously refined leading up to the testing phase. Fundamental safety measures, such as the use of helmets and safety glasses, will be rigorously enforced throughout the project.

Furthermore, to ensure the safety of both team members and the test drone, we are implementing a tethering system as well as designing an enclosure to be used during the testing phase. This will prevent unintended incidents and guarantee a controlled testing environment.

In our discussions, we also recognized the necessity of a robust safety feature design for the VTOL. It was emphasized that a minimum of two independent safety features must be incorporated into both the test drone and the final VTOL.

# VTOL Design and Material selection
An integral focus of our project is the meticulous design and material selection for the Vertical Takeoff and Landing (VTOL) drone. This week, we are dedicated to developing Computer-Aided Design (CAD) models for both the test drone and the VTOL. These CAD models will serve as the preliminary designs that will undergo further refinement through Computational Fluid Dynamics (CFD) testing and structural analysis.

Simultaneously, the selection of materials for the project is receiving careful consideration, with a commitment to thorough testing during the prototyping phase. In consultation with our advising professors, it was determined that tubular carbon fiber is the optimal choice for constructing the drone's body, ensuring a perfect balance of strength and lightness for our project's needs.

Tune in next week for more updates!

